Issue/1867 Migration Path utilites deprecated (#2337)
porsche-design-system/porsche-design-system: packages/utilities-deprecated/projects/utilities/CHANGELOG.md

### [Unreleased]

> This package is **deprecated** and will no longer be maintained. All `Porsche Design System` utilities are now provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package is **deprecated** and will no longer be maintained. All utilities are now provided
```

> at`@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles` in from of styles and Design Tokens. To make the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via the`@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles` sub-package. To make the
```

migration easier, we offer an overview of the old deprecated values in reference to the new design tokens. Further

> documentation about the new Design Tokens can be found here

Reviewer: A bit mixed with `design tokens` and `Design Tokens`. 
I personally would go with the lower case version since it isn't a component, package name or anything.

[Introduction](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/introduction).

#### Changed

##### JS

**Functions**

> - `focus()` is now `getFocusStyles()`. The parameters have changed as the focus is now handled with `border` and rounded

Reviewer: `border` and `border-radius` to be consistent and speak CSS for technical people.

>   edges. You can choose `small` or `medium` for the `borderRadius`. `getFocusStyles()` also excepts an `theme` parameter

Reviewer: `border` and `border-radius` would be consistent and understandable by technical people.

>   edges. You can choose `small` or `medium` for the `borderRadius`. `getFocusStyles()` also excepts an `theme` parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  edges. You can choose `small` or `medium` for the `borderRadius` parameter. `getFocusStyles()` also excepts a `theme` parameter
```

  instead of a custom `color`, which determines the color of the focus.

```diff
- import { focus } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities'
+ import { getFocusStyles } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

- `breakpoint` `xxs` is now `base`. The values have not changed.

> - Instead of `mediaQuery()` we provide now `getMediaQueryMin`, `getMediaQueryMax` and `getMediaQueryMinMax`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Instead of `mediaQuery()` we provide now `getMediaQueryMin()`, `getMediaQueryMax()` and `getMediaQueryMinMax()`.
```

>   Furthermore, the functions accept only the predefined PDS breakpoints from `base` to `xxl` and no custom breakpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Furthermore, the functions accept only the predefined breakpoints from `base` to `xxl` and no custom breakpoints
```

  anymore.

```diff
- import { breakpoint, mediaQuery } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities'
+ import { breakpoint, getMediaQueryMin, getMediaQueryMax, getMediaQueryMinMax } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

- `titleLarge` got renamed to `displayLargeStyle`. The size got adjusted. In addition, we also provide
  `displayMediumStyle`. The new `display` styles differ also, that they are recursive and their size is changing linear

>   fluid depending on the viewport width instead of fixed predefined sizes on specific breakpoints.

Reviewer: I think linear fluid isn't true. I would just call it fluid because it doesn't scale or shrink infinite. The opposite would be static or dynamic with breakpoints. Fixed is kind of confusing.

```diff
- import { titleLarge } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities'
+ import { displayMediumStyle, displayLargeStyle } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

- `headline` got renamed to `heading{Small|Medium|Large|XLarge|XXLarge|XXXLarge}Style`. The size got adjusted. Same as

>   in `display`, the size is now changing linear fluid, depending on the viewport width instead of fixed predefined sizes

Reviewer: Same.

```diff
- import { textXSmall, textSmall, textMedium, textLarge, textXLarge } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities'
+ import { textXSmallStyle, textSmallStyle, textMediumStyle, textLargeStyle, textXLargeStyle } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

**Colors**

As of v3 of the Porsche Design System the color theme got reworked completely to achieve a monochrome look. To get an
overview of the new colors have a look at [Theme](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/theme).

- `lightTheme` and `darkTheme` got renamed to `themeLight` and `themeDark`. In addition, you can also single import a
  theme if for e.g. you only need `lightTheme`.

```diff
- import { color } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
+ import { theme, themeLight, themeDark } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

As the design tokens for `themeLight` and `themeDark` are in sync, the name changes mentioned below concern both themes
even if only light theme is displayed in the diff.

- `brand` got renamed to `primary`.

```diff
- color.lightTheme.brand
+ themeLight.primary
```

- `default` is removed.

```diff

> - color.lightTheme.default

Reviewer: Isn't this `base` or `primary` now?

- themeLight.notification.info
- themeLight.notification.infoSoft
```

- `state.focus` is changed from `currentColor` to a fixed color, depending on the theme.

**Font**

- `fontFamily` is provided as design token

```diff
- import { fontFamily } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
+ import { fontFamily } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

- `fontWeight` is provided as design token

```diff
- import { fontWeight } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
+ import { fontWeight } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

**Spacings**

With the upcoming v3 release, we will be introducing fluid spacers alongside our static spacers. These spacers will
adjust in size based on a min and max value, providing a linear response to changes in browser width. Additionally,
we've switched from using _rem_ to _px_ for our spacers to ensure they don't unnecessarily expand when the root font
size is adjusted.

To get an overview ot the new spacings have a look at [Spacing](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/spacing).

```diff
- import { spacing } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';

> - import { layout } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';

Reviewer: Here we have trailing semi colons `;` in other snippets we don't. Let's stay consistent.

+ import { spacing, spacingStatic, spacingFluid } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles'
```

##### SCSS

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';
```

**Mixins**

> - `p-focus` mixin is now `pds-focus`. The parameters have changed as the focus is now handled with `border` and rounded

Reviewer: See previous comments that also apply here.

  edges. You can choose `small` or `medium` for the `border-radius`. `pds-focus` also excepts an `theme` parameter
  instead of `color`, which determines the color of the focus.

```diff
-  @include p-focus;
+  @include pds-focus;
```

- `breakpoint` `xxs` is now `base`. The values have not changed.
- Instead of `p-media-query` we provide now `pds-media-query-min`, `pds-media-query-max` and `pds-media-query-min-max`.
  Furthermore, the mixins only accept the predefined PDS breakpoints from `base` to `xxl` and no custom breakpoints
  anymore.

```diff
-  @include p-media-query($min, $max);

+  @include pds-media-query-min($min);
+  @include pds-media-query-max($max);
+  @include pds-media-query-min-max($min, $max);
```

- `p-title-large` mixin is now renamed to `pds-display-large`. The size got adjusted. In addition, we also provide

>   `pds-display-medium`. The new `display` mixin differ also, that they are recursive and their size is changing linear

Reviewer: Recursive?

>   fluid depending on the viewport width instead of fixed predefined sizes on specific breakpoints.

Reviewer: Same comments from before apply.

**Spacings**

With the upcoming v3 release, we will be introducing fluid spacers alongside our static spacers. These spacers will
adjust in size based on a min and max value, providing a linear response to changes in browser width. Additionally,
we've switched from using _rem_ to _px_ for our spacers to ensure they don't unnecessarily expand when the root font
size is adjusted.

To get an overview ot the new spacings have a look at [Spacing](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/spacing).

```diff
- $p-spacing-4
- $p-spacing-8
- $p-spacing-16
- $p-spacing-24
- $p-spacing-32
- $p-spacing-40
- $p-spacing-48
- $p-spacing-56
- $p-spacing-64
- $p-spacing-72
- $p-spacing-80
- $p-layout-x-small
- $p-layout-small
- $p-layout-medium
- $p-layout-large
- $p-layout-x-large
- $p-layout-xx-large

+ $pds-spacing-static-x-small
+ $pds-spacing-static-small
+ $pds-spacing-static-medium
+ $pds-spacing-static-large
+ $pds-spacing-static-x-large
+ $pds-spacing-static-xx-large
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-x-small
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-small
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-medium
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-large
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-x-large
+ $pds-spacing-fluid-xx-large
```

#### Deprecated

##### JS

**Functions**

> - `pxToRem()` there is no replacement for the function.

Reviewer: Maybe change the wording so that is an actual sentence or is there supposed to be a colon `:` after the function?

### [Unreleased]

> ### [5.4.1] - 2023-03-01

Author: ```suggestion
### [5.4.1] - 2023-03-02
```

`;
```

- `headline{1|2|3|4|5}` got renamed to `heading{Small|Medium|Large|XLarge|XXLarge|XXXLarge}Style`.

```diff
- import { headline } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
+ import { headingXXLargeStyle } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles';
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Component1 = styled.h1`
- ${headline['1']}
+ ${headingXXLargeStyle}
`;
```

- `text` got renamed to `text{XSmall|Small|Medium|Large|XLarge}Style`.

```diff
- import { text } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
+ import { textSmallStyle } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles';
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Component1 = styled.p`
- ${text.small}
+ ${textSmallStyle}
`;
```

**Colors**

As of v3 of the Porsche Design System the color theme got reworked completely to achieve a monochrome look. To get an
overview of the new colors have a look [here](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/theme).

- `color.lightTheme` and `color.darkTheme` got renamed to `theme.light` and `theme.dark`. In addition, you can also
  single import a theme, e.g. if you only need `themeLight`.

```diff

> - import { color } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';;

Reviewer 2: mistype: `;;`

> - import { color } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';;

Author: ```suggestion
- import { color } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';
```

+ import { theme, themeLight, themeDark } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles';
```

> Since the styles for `themeLight` and `themeDark` are synchronized, the name changes mentioned below affect both themes,

Reviewer 2: This sentence belongs to the point "`brand` got renamed to `primary`", so I would move it there.

Because, when reading, I tried to apply this sentence to the point "`color.lightTheme` and `color.darkTheme` got renamed..." and got confused

Author: This belongs to all the below changes as there was `color.lightTheme`  and `color.darkTheme` which have the same keys. So it is the correct position

  `fontLineHeight` style and on of the provided font sizes, e.g. `fontSizeTextSmall` to recreate it.

**Spacings**

- the static `spacing` object with `rem` spacings is no longer provided in v3. Please use one of the provided static or
  fluid spacings.

##### SCSS

**Mixins**

- `p-px-to-rem` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `p-rem-to-px` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `p-calculate-line-height` will be removed in v3. To set the `line-height`, use the `$pds-font-line-height` variable.
- `p-generate-type-scale` will be removed in v3 since the font sizes are now fluid. The `$pds-font-line-height` style
  and one of the provided font sizes should be used.
- `p-generate-font-definition` will be removed in v3. We provide `$pds-font-family`, `$pds-font-weight`,
  `$pds-font-line-height` and multiple font sizes, which should be used instead.

**Colors**

- theme `light-electric` and `dark-electric` are no longer available in v3.
- all `external` colors are no longer available in v3.

**Font**

- `$p-font-weight-thin` is removed.

```diff
- $p-font-weight-thin
```

> - static font sizes `$p-font-size-{12]16|18|20|22|24|28|30|32|36||42|44|48|52|60|62|72|84}` will be removed in v3.

Reviewer 2: mistype:

```suggestion
- static font sizes `$p-font-size-{12]16|18|20|22|24|28|30|32|36|42|44|48|52|60|62|72|84}` will be removed in v3.
```

### [Unreleased]

> ### [5.4.1] - 2023-03-02

Author: ```suggestion
### [5.4.1] - 2023-03-03
```

### [Unreleased]

> ### [5.4.1] - 2023-02-28

Author: ```suggestion
### [5.4.1] - 2023-03-01
```

This package is **deprecated** and will no longer be maintained. All `Porsche Design System` utilities are now provided
via the `@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles` sub-package. To make the migration easier, we
offer an overview of the old deprecated values in reference to the new styles. Further documentation about the new
styles can be found [here](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/introduction).

#### Changed

##### JS

**Functions**

> - `focus()` is now `getFocusStyles()`.

Author: ```suggestion
- `focus()` is now `getFocusStyle()`.
```

```diff
- import { focus } from '@porsche-design-system/utilities';

> + import { getFocusStyles } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles';

Author: ```suggestion
+ import { getFocusStyle } from '@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles';
```

import styled from 'styled-components';

const Component1 = styled.a`

> -  ${focus({ color: color.state.focus, offset: '1px', pseudo: '::before' })}

Author: ```suggestion
-  ${focus()}
```

> +  ${getFocusStyle({ offset: 'small', borderRadius: 'small', theme: 'light' })}

Author: ```suggestion
+  ${getFocusStyle()}
```

  }
```

- `breakpoint` `xxs` is now `base`.
- instead of `p-media-query` we provide now `pds-media-query-min`, `pds-media-query-max` and `pds-media-query-min-max`.
  Furthermore, the mixins only accept the predefined Porsche Design System breakpoints from `base` to `xxl` and no
  custom breakpoints anymore.

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';

div {
  color: inherit;

   // up to predefined breakpoint xs apply color black
+  @include pds-media-query-max('xs')
    color: black;
  }

  // from predefined breakpoint xs to m apply color aqua
-  @include p-media-query('xs', 'm') {
+  @include pds-media-query-min-max('xs', 'm')
    color: aqua;
  }

  // from predefined breakpoint m apply color deeppink
-  @include p-media-query('m') {
+  @include pds-media-query-min('m')
    color: deeppink;
  }
}
```

- `p-title-large` mixin is now renamed to `pds-display-large` and in addition we provide `pds-display-medium`. The size
  of the new `display` styles are changing fluid depending on the viewport width instead of fixed predefined sizes on

>   specific breakpoints, and they are italic now.

Reviewer 3: see comment above. Don't make detailed descriptions (they can be easily out of sync)

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';

h1 {
- @include p-title-large;
+ @include pds-display-large;
}

h2 {
+ @include pds-display-medium;
}
```

- `p-headline-{1|2|3|4|5}` got renamed/extended to `pds-heading-{small|medium|large|x-large|xx-large|xxx-large}`. The
  size of the new `heading` styles are changing fluid depending on the viewport width instead of fixed predefined sizes

>   on specific breakpoints, and they are italic now.

Reviewer 3: see above.

}
```

**Colors**

As of v3 of the Porsche Design System the color theme got reworked completely to achieve a monochrome look. To get an
overview ot the new colors have a look [here](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/theme).

- `brand` got renamed to `primary`.

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';

div {
- background: {$p-color-brand|$p-color-theme-light-brand};
+ background: $pds-theme-light-primary;
}
```

- `default` is removed, use `primary` instead.

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';

div {
- color: {$p-color-default|$p-color-theme-light-default};
+ color: $pds-theme-light-primary;
}
```

- `$p-color-theme-light-background` is renamed to `$pds-theme-light-background-base`.

```diff
- @import '~@porsche-design-system/utilities/scss';
+ @import '~@porsche-design-system/components-{js|angular|react|vue}/styles/scss';

div {
- background: {$p-color-background-default|$p-color-theme-light-background};
+ background: $pds-theme-light-background-base;
}
```

> - to keep it clear, only the old color variable in regard to its new name will be mentioned below:

Reviewer 3: Maybe better:
For the sake of clarity, only the old color variables are mentioned below in relation to their new names.

root font size is adjusted.

```diff
- $p-layout-x-small
+ $pds-spacing-static-x-small

- $p-layout-small
+ $pds-spacing-static-small

- $p-layout-medium
+ $pds-spacing-static-medium

- $p-layout-large
+ $pds-spacing-static-large

- $p-layout-x-large
+ $pds-spacing-static-x-large

- $p-layout-xx-large
+ $pds-spacing-static-xx-large
```

To get an overview ot the new spacings have a look [here](https://designsystem.porsche.com/latest/styles/spacing).

#### Deprecated

##### JS

**Functions**

- `pxToRem()` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `remToPx()` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `calculateLineHeight()` will be removed in v3. To set the `line-height`, use the `fontLineHeight` style provided.
- `generateTypeScale()` will be removed in v3. Since the font sizes are now fluid, the `fontLineHeight` style and one of
  the provided font sizes should be used.
- `generateFontDefinition()` will be removed in v3. We provide `fontFamily`, `fontWeight`, `fontLineHeight` and multiple
  font sizes, which should be used instead.

**Colors**

- all `external` colors are no longer available in v3.

**Font**

> - `fontWeight` thin is removed as of v3.

Author: They are not removed at the moment thats why they are deprecated.

- the static `font.size` object is no longer provided in v3. Please use one of the predefined fluid font sizes or the
  `fontLineHeight` style and on of the provided font sizes, e.g. `fontSizeTextSmall` to recreate it.

**Spacings**

- the static `spacing` object with `rem` spacings is no longer provided in v3. Please use one of the provided static or
  fluid spacings.

##### SCSS

**Mixins**

- `p-px-to-rem` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `p-rem-to-px` will be removed in v3 without replacement.
- `p-calculate-line-height` will be removed in v3. To set the `line-height`, use the `$pds-font-line-height` variable.
- `p-generate-type-scale` will be removed in v3 since the font sizes are now fluid. The `$pds-font-line-height` style
  and one of the provided font sizes should be used.
- `p-generate-font-definition` will be removed in v3. We provide `$pds-font-family`, `$pds-font-weight`,
  `$pds-font-line-height` and multiple font sizes, which should be used instead.

**Colors**

- theme `light-electric` and `dark-electric` are no longer available in v3.
- all `external` colors are no longer available in v3.

**Font**

- `$p-font-weight-thin` is removed.

```diff

> - $p-font-weight-thin

Reviewer 2: I think diff is superfluous (not needed) here

Author: Sets the class onto the `<code>` tag and is needed for styling with prism.
